---
title: September (2019)
category: monthly_summary
date: 2020-03-05T15:25:04.593Z
banner_image: img/september-summary.jpg
---
Welcome to the first post of the blog which happens to also be a *Monthly Summary* post. In *Monthly Summaries*, simply labelled by the month, I'll recap all the best finds for that month. In order to catch up to the current month, I'll be publishing one monthly summary per week.

- - -

September showed a fair share of folksy artists but also a decent portion of indie and some electronic.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/playlist/2TzzIaWxMqXa2PwaUwETiq" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

- - -

### Pangaea Girls (Magic Feeling)

#### *Candy Claws*

This is such a fun song with so many dreamy hooks and changes in it. The subtle echoing synth in the background paints pictures of water seascapes, and the general reverb of everything makes one feel completely submerged in some kind of super soft and silky sound blanket.

- - -

### Helicopter

#### *Deerhunter*

Helicopter is a lot calmer compared to Pangaea Girls (Magic Feeling), but it shares so many similar qualities it almost feels like it's the second part to the previous song. 

- - -

### Windows

#### *Sugar Candy Mountain*

A song that evokes all kinds of cool with its sultry vocals and provocative bass. If this is the modern-day sound of psychedelia please make more!

- - -

### Picture Me Better

#### *Weyes Blood*

Weyes Blood honestly has one of the loveliest voices around today. Names like Karen Carpenter, Carole King, and Joni Mitchell come to mind. Modern day artists like Angel Olsen and Squirrel Flower also come to mind! Gonna need to binge some folk singers soon.

- - -

### Suddenly (feat. Weyes Blood)

#### *Drugdealer*

THE BASS (played by Ariel Pink btw)! WEYES BLOOD! A COOL SO COOL IT SHOULD BE CRIMINAL! 

- - -

### Feels Pretty Good

#### *TWRP*

Following that last bassy track, *Feels Pretty Good*, feels *really* good. There's no other way to say it. Amazing bass playing. The robotic vocals towards the end of the track are a great touch.

- - -

* ### No Return
* ### Where the World Begins And Ends
* ### 22: The Death of All the Romance
* ### Lost in the Plot

#### *The Dears*

The Dears really are something else that I can't get enough of. Lot's of great bass playing in the first two tracks. They feel orchestral pop/rock with vocals like Morrissey's.

*No Return* has a cool shift in style at 4:08 with a fantastic fill at 4:18. *Where The World Begins And Ends* picks up tempo in a real wonderful way at 3:20. *22: The Death of All the Romance* has lovely back and forth between the male and female vocalists, that adds to the theme. *Lost in the Plot's* drop in volume at 2:06 really helps augment the bridge at 3:21 and the kick in to high gear at 3:36.

- - -

### Lady of the Ark

#### *Kyle Craft*

Ah yes. Back to folksy! The raw emotion in *Lady of the Ark* becomes really palpable in his rise in pitch at 1:06 and throughout the rest of the song. There are subtle tones throughout the song that fill it just right. The super reverb-ridden tambourine, the organ at 1:21, the backing vocals at 1:37.

Oh! There's also a sick accordion at 2:34.

- - -

### Wah-Wah

#### *George Harrison*

Man, there's no need to explain how great this song is. It's George Harrison after all! The chord progression is killer! The bass playing is amazing! A really joyful track.

- - -

* ### Painting Box
* ### Chinese White

#### *The Incredible String Band*

The 60s at their best. *Painting Box* has really lovely guitar playing with equally great vocals. *Chinese White* is a lot more of what people imagine when they hear *the 60s*, but the way in which the vocals sustain their key at 1:19 while the instruments drop and rise in theirs, is what really sold this track for me. That violin sounding thing is really cool too! It's called a gimbri, which is a type of lute. 

- - -

* ### Lipstick
* ### White Freckles
* ### Revolution's A Lie
* ### Butt-House Blondies
* ### Round And Round

#### *Ariel Pink*

Ariel Pink makes amazing songs, dips them in some kind of lo-fi aging chemical, and makes them even more amazing. The hooks this man is able to come up with are mind boggling.

MIND BOGGLING HOOKS:

* Lipstick

  * *"Running for cover. Oh oh oh"* at 0:46
  * The entire chorus from 0:56 to 1:10
  * The outro at 2:50
* White Freckles

  * The entire intro from 0:00 to 0:41 (including the "HEY!" at 0:34)
  * The shift at 0:42
* Revolution's A Lie

  * The entire song because Joy Divison
* Butt-House Blondies

  * The crisp arpeggios and calmness of the verses
* Round And Round

  * The *"Na na na na's"* everywhere
  * The really quiet *"Breakdown, break break breakdown"* at 1:01
  * The "YOUUU-HUUU PLAY". You'll hear it!
  * The chorus. It's just out of this world. At 1:58

- - -

### Strange Powers

#### *The Magnetic Fields*

Similarly as catchy and lo-fi as Ariel Pink, The Magnetic Fields are a classic indie act. Stephin Merritt's monotone vocals contrast the playfulness of everything perfectly.

- - -

### Romantic

#### *Mannequin Pussy*

Soft voices are cool and all, but they're even cooler when they get rough too. Mannequin Pussy are experts across the entire spectrum of raw emotion. The vocal style complements the theme as it does the playing.

- - -

### White is Red

#### *Death From Above 1979*

*White Is Red* opens with one of the best hooks I've ever heard. I was blown away when I found out it was a bass! Great bridges and hooks. Easily one of my top tracks of the year. 

- - -

### Carry the Zero

#### *Built To Spill*

The soft guitars and both emotive lyrics and vocals made this song a staple and non-stop listen for the year. The guitar solo at 1:11, the musical transition at 3:59 and build up for the remainder of the song make this another top of the year track.

- - -

### A Life of Possibilities

#### *Dismemberment Plan*

The quirky, deep, cool bass, paired with the high pitched singing bundle this song up into a nice package. The guitars at 0:30 amazing.

- - -

### No Destination

#### *The Garden*

The echoing piano at first made me think I was going on some wild 90s electronic music ride, but when the super wobbly bass kicked in at 0:42, and the drums and vocals at 0:57, I knew I had found something amazing. I binged this one for a good while.

- - -

### Dum Surfer

#### *King Krule*

King Krule has set a new bar for *cool*.

- - -

### The Wave

#### *Se So Neon*

Smooth captivating bass, guitars, and drumming, and aggressive fills. What more do you want?

- - -

* ### Limbo
* ### Lotus Love
* ### Seoul Music
* ### Pure Jam
* ### Tong Poo

#### *YELLOW MAGIC ORCHESTRA*

Considered godfathers of much of electronic music today, YELLOW MAGIC ORCHESTRA's (YMO) music still stands the test of time. 

- - -

* ### HEAVEN
* ### PERSONAL PULSE

#### *P-MODEL*

P-MODEL sounds like a more experimental version of YMO. Both bands formed around the same time too. The frontman of P-MODEL, Susumu Hirasawa, is better known nowadays for his work with the soundtracks for the anime series Berserk and anime film Paprika.

- - -

### Blood And Rockets: Movement I, Saga Of Jack Parsons - Movement II, Too The Moon

#### *The Claypool Lennon Delirium*

Finishing off with more bass, *The Claypool Lennon Delirium* combines Les Claypool from Primus and Sean Lennon (John Lennon's son). The song's morbid chord progression at 4:08 is amazing. 

- - -
