---
title: October (2019)
category: monthly_summary
date: 2020-03-14T17:14:58.246Z
banner_image: img/october-summary.jpg
---
Welcome to the second monthly summary post. As a refresher, I am publishing one monthly summary every weekend in order to catch up to the current month.

- - -

I think October was probably one of the best months of things I discovered. I'm just going to jump right into it.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/playlist/2hMCCFOE3zwVpmN4QCpx4q" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>

- - -

* ### Real Bad Lookin'
* ### Far From Born Again

#### *Alex Cameron*

Alex apparently has a conceptual act where he takes on the persona of a failed entertainer. The minimal arrangements give the stage entirely to Alex's lounge singer vibes.

- - -

* ### It's On You
* ### Falling Down

#### *Happyness*

Happyness has such a great tone and balance between vocals and instruments. These lads are similar to [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QTTgpTeb0Z8](Pavement). 

- - -

### Changes

#### *Antonio Williams, Kerry McCoy*

This song came out of nowhere and hit the hardest. It's just so sad but good.

- - -

### White Seal (Shell & Spin)

#### *Candy Claws*

Velvety sounds that smother you in chromatic light rainbows. A really cool and mischievous beat.

- - -

### Haters Be Learners (Respect My Snail Style)

#### *The Snails*

Lead singer from [Future Islands](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-5Ae-LhMIG0). What more could you ask for?

- - -

### Cold Vermouth

#### *Omni*

The guitar work is something else! The lo-fi is Omni's selling point. They are a must listen band where tracks rarely disappoint.

- - -

### When Love Breaks Down

#### *Prefab Sprout*

Really fantastic bass.

- - -

### Wishful Thinking

#### *China Crisis*

This is honestly one of my favorite songs of the year. It's such a great arrangement in all aspects. The synth adornments, the acoustic guitar, the strings, the wood blocks, etc.

Going to really have to check out more China Crisis.

- - -

### Hot Sauce

#### *Thomas Dolby*

Bass this good should be illegal!  Thomas Dolby has a lot of great stuff and definitely worth checking his stuff out.

- - -

* ### I'll Have What She's Having
* ### Ladies Who Lunch With Me
* ### Party Without Ya

#### *WOOZE*

I feel confident in saying these are in my top 10 if not top 5 artists for the year. Think DEVO meets Gary Numan. The tracks are layered with wonderful detail not to mention some of the meanest hooks I've heard.

- - -

### Beautiful Blue Sky

#### *Ought*

> *How's the church? How's the job? How's the church? How's the job? How's the family? How's the family? How's the family? How's the family?*
>
> *I'm no longer afraid to die Cause that is all that I have left
> Yes! Yes!
> And I'm no longer afraid to dance tonight
> Cause that is all that I have left
> Yes! Yes!*

Yes.

- - -

### Turn on the Darkness

#### *Between The Buried And Me*

From what I've seen and have read, *Between The Buried And Me*, are take a more prog rock approach similar to Dream Theater. Just listen to the different changes and the incredible musicianship on behalf of all the instruments. Pay close attention to the drums and guitar. The arrangement at 2:15 is the best part! The shift to a calmer sound and guitar solo at 4:26 are gnarly!

- - -

### Leda

#### *Makthaverskan*

The chorus is amazing.

- - -

* ### In Love Again
* ### F.U.C.A.W
* ### Cream
* ### Patience

#### *Mannequin Pussy*

WOW. Marisa Dabice, the singer, has such amazing range; delicacy and raw power when at will. Really cathartic.

- - -

* ### Rocketship
* ### Under Streetlights Shadows
* ### Nothing Deep Inside

#### *Rocketship*

Rocketship have been one of my favorite bands. I came to like them because of their [bass driven sounds in their older tracks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yKBZQROuz84), but this new direction is just as amazing. It's still very much *Rocketship*.

- - -

### Ryan Paris

#### *Dolce Vita*

I feel like an old man when I listen to this, but I could care less. This song is catchy as hell with its sick synth work.

- - -

### Habibi

#### *Sahara Band*

I have to thank WOOZE for this one since I found this song in one of their playlists. It's maximum *dork* but the synth and bass are phenomenal. *Habibi* is an Arabic word that literally means "my love". It can also be translated as "my darling" or "beloved".

- - -

### Twenty Two

#### *Sunflower Bean*

Fleetwood Mac's Stevie Nicks era vibes? Hell yes.

- - -

* ### Baby Alligator
* ### Grab It From The Garden
* ### What Comes Next
* ### The Great Alligator

#### *Ovlov*

Harsh distortion evocative of so much emotion. Ovlov blends these rough tones with soft quiet choruses where the distortion is very restrained. My Bloody Valentine meets Pavement.

- - -

### Noid

#### *Yves Tumor*

The ghost notes in the drumming are smooth! The beat itself is amazing as are its [political lyrics](https://genius.com/Yves-tumor-noid-lyrics).

- - -

### Shuggie

#### *Foxygen*

There aren't words to describe how many beautiful sections this song has. The shift at 1:06 and the build up at 1:17 lay the groundwork for the otherworldly transition at 2:30.

> Hey man have a soda. It's on the house.

- - -

* ### Away From Home
* ### Hussy

#### *Crystal Skulls*

The bassist really emulates some sick McCartney bass playing. The double time at 1:56 in *Away From Home* is a nice change!

- - -

### Egg

#### *The Garden*

The Garden is something else and this was the second song I heard from them, with [No Destination](https://open.spotify.com/track/621BmpFIPgBU9qdCzCcTMh?si=SsnEYLDoT2CRl0WHdkrPhQ) being the first. What stands out the most to me about these lads is their bass tone. It's a really captivating effect. But the sheer power with the opening alone in *Egg* is what dragged me in. The drum work is great too!

- - -

### Troubled And Done

#### *Balkans*

My favorite parts are the bass-less parts, like 0:18-0:25 which is done throughout the track. 

- - -

### Girl From Germany

#### *Sparks*

I hear these guys were Queen before Queen. Nonetheless, this is a hell of a track.

- - -

### Get Lucky

#### *Heatmiser*

The deep tone paired with Elliot Smith's voice is amazing.

- - -

### With Heat

#### *Bodywash*

The ethereal shoegaziness of *MBV* but without the distortion and a heavy focus on vocals instead. Really dreamy.

- - -

### Chance

#### *Angel Olsen*

I've followed Angel Olsen's work since about 2011 when I first discovered her and fell in love with both her voice and manner of singing. Her work has been an interesting development to witness and although her latest album, All Mirrors, is not in my list of favorites, like *Half Way Home* and *MY WOMAN* (what I consider her best album yet), this track, *Chance*, is a special gem. It's very lounge-like and more similar to old 50s/60s love songs. 

Her switch to a lower register and louder delivery at 2:54 gives me shivers every time, especially when paired with the violins in the background.

- - -

* ### Socks, Drugs And Rock 'N' Roll
* ### Cyclic

#### *Buffalo Daughter*

When I want to find something unique, Japan never seems to disappoint. These two songs are so different and equally great. 

*Socks, Drugs And Rock 'N' Roll* simple bass is really great. *Cyclics* constant build up and layering of volume and instruments are amazing. Be patient on this one as the drums don't come in until 1:47. The guitars at 2:35 are nuts! The harmonics at 4:02 are indescribable.

- - -

### Earth Beat

#### *Yoshinori Sunahara*

Really similar to YMO (Yellow Magic Orchestra) in their later years!

- - -

### Bleed

#### *George Clanton*

George is brining a new era of vaporwave that feels like a blend of 80s synthpop and Enya. It is a much welcomed change!

- - -

### Smoke

#### *Cornelius*

There's so many cool parts in this one. Lots of adornments everywhere!

- - -
